[Doctrine] Put all docs about testing databases in a single article (#12317)
symfony/symfony-docs: testing/database.rst

To do that, edit or create the ``.env.test.local`` file at the root directory of
your project and define the new value for the ``DATABASE_URL`` env var:

.. code-block:: bash

    # .env.test.local
    DATABASE_URL=mysql://USERNAME:PASSWORD@127.0.0.1/DB_NAME

.. tip::

    A common practice is to append the ``_test`` suffix to the original database
    names in tests. If the database name in production is called ``project_acme``
    the name of the testing database could be ``project_acme_test``.

The above assumes that each developer/machine uses a different database for the
tests. If the entire team uses the same settings for tests, edit or create the
``.env.test`` file instead and commit it to the shared repository. Learn more
about :ref:`using multiple .env files in Symfony applications <configuration-multiple-env-files>`.

Resetting the Database Automatically Before each Test
-----------------------------------------------------

Tests should be independent from each other to avoid side effects. However, if
some test modifies the database (for example by adding or removing an element)
it could impact the other tests. Run the following command to install a bundle

> that ensures that each test is run with a new and unmodified copy of the database:

Reviewer: This is not correct. It isolates queries, but they are still run in same database

Something like this perhaps would be more accurate
```suggestion
that ensures that SQL queries of each test are isolated in their own sandbox
```

2 instances of this

Reviewer 2: indeed tests are not run within their own copy of a database

Author: @ostrolucky you are right. I've reworded this a bit to explain things better and more precisely. Thanks!

Reviewer: cool, thank you too

        <!-- ... -->

        <!-- Add this in PHPUnit 8 or higher -->
        <extensions>
            <extension class="DAMA\DoctrineTestBundle\PHPUnit\PHPUnitExtension" />
        </extensions>

        <!-- Add this in PHPUnit 7 or lower -->
        <listeners>
            <listener class="\DAMA\DoctrineTestBundle\PHPUnit\PHPUnitListener" />
        </listeners>
    </phpunit>

This bundle uses a clever trick to create a new database for each test without
scarifying performance: it begins a transaction before every test case and rolls
it back automatically after the test finished. Read more in the documentation of
the `DAMADoctrineTestBundle`_.

.. _doctrine-fixtures:

Dummy Data Fixtures
-------------------

Instead of using the real data from the production database, it's common to use
fake or dummy data in the test database. This is usually called *"fixtures data"*
and Doctrine provides a library to create and load them. Install it with:

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ composer require --dev doctrine/doctrine-fixtures-bundle

Then, use the ``make:fixtures`` command to generate an empty fixture class:

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ php bin/console make:fixtures

>     The class name of the fixtures to create (e.g. AppFixtures):

Reviewer 3: is the last `s` of `AppFixtures` an error? or from the maker code?
it is confusing at first, moreover if next line you enter `ProductFixture` without s

Author: Yes, Maker bundle uses "AppFixtures" (https://github.com/symfony/maker-bundle/blob/020c04826455abf72184d487a1da65a2632f5fd3/src/Maker/MakeFixtures.php)

returned by the ``EntityManager``. This way, no real class is involved in
testing.

Mocking a Doctrine Repository in Functional Tests
-------------------------------------------------

In :ref:`functional tests <functional-tests>` you'll make queries to the
database using the actual Doctrine repositories, instead of mocking them. To do
so, get the entity manager via the service container as follows::

    // tests/Repository/ProductRepositoryTest.php
    namespace App\Tests\Repository;

    use App\Entity\Product;
    use Symfony\Bundle\FrameworkBundle\Test\KernelTestCase;

    class ProductRepositoryTest extends KernelTestCase
    {
        /**
         * @var \Doctrine\ORM\EntityManager
         */
        private $entityManager;

        protected function setUp()
        {
            $kernel = self::bootKernel();

            $this->entityManager = $kernel->getContainer()
                ->get('doctrine')
                ->getManager();
        }

>         public function testSearchByCategoryName()

Reviewer 3: why not ByProductName ? as the fixture uses product->setName

also maybe a name without the `!` :)

Author: Yes, Maker bundle uses "AppFixtures" (https://github.com/symfony/maker-bundle/blob/020c04826455abf72184d487a1da65a2632f5fd3/src/Maker/MakeFixtures.php)
